feat(bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/esxi-partitioning): add new page (#5121)
ovh/docs: pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/esxi-partitioning/guide.en-gb.md

---
title: Dedicated Servers - ESXi Partitioning
excerpt: Use the OVHcloud Control Panel or the OVHcloud API to customise ESXi system partitions
updated: 2023-09-05
---

## Objective

> With [OVHcloud dedicated servers](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/bare-metal/), you can freely [configure partitioning](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/partitioning_ovh). This gives customers a wide range of options when installing an operating system. ESXi is an exception because it is a UNIX based, proprietary system with a proprietary installer.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [OVHcloud dedicated servers](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/bare-metal/), you can freely [configure partitioning](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/partitioning_ovh). This gives customers a wide range of options when installing an operating system. ESXi is an exception because it is a UNIX-based, proprietary system with a proprietary installer.<br />
```

> OVHcloud installations of ESXi are therefore compliant with the configuration set by the software publisher. Since ESXi 7.0 it is possible to choose between 4 different predefined partitioning layouts. This guide will show you how to select a partitioning layout in the [OVHcloud Control Panel](https://ovh.com/manager/#/dedicated/configuration) or via the [OVHcloud API](https://api.ovh.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OVHcloud installations of ESXi are therefore compliant with the configuration set by the software publisher. Since ESXi 7.0, it is possible to choose between 4 different predefined partitioning layouts. This guide will show you how to select a partitioning layout in the [OVHcloud Control Panel](https://ovh.com/manager/#/dedicated/configuration) or via the [OVHcloud API](https://api.ovh.com/).
```

> [!primary]
>

> > ESXi 7.0 is often used as an example but this documentation is valid for any further versions of ESXi 7.0 as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ESXi 7.0 is often used as an example but this documentation is valid for any further versions of ESXi as well.
```

>

## Requirements

- A [dedicated server](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/bare-metal/) **ready to be installed/reinstalled** in your OVHcloud account that is compatible with ESXi
- Access to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](https://ovh.com/manager/#/dedicated/configuration) and/or the [OVHcloud API](https://api.ovh.com/)

> [!alert]
>
> Reinstalling a dedicated server deletes all data currently stored on it.
>

## Instructions

> ESXi 7.0 has introduced a [boot option to configure the size of ESXi system partitions](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/81166) because some customers had complained about the useless presence of a datastore that fills all the remaining space of the installation disk or an OS that uses an oversized system partition. OVHcloud includes this feature in the [OVHcloud Control Panel](https://ovh.com/manager/#/dedicated/configuration) and the [OVHcloud API](https://api.ovh.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ESXi 7.0 introduced a [boot option to configure the size of ESXi system partitions](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/81166) because the increased size of the system partition could cause issues, especially on systems with small disks. OVHcloud includes this feature in the [OVHcloud Control Panel](https://ovh.com/manager/#/dedicated/configuration) and the [OVHcloud API](https://api.ovh.com/).
```
I simplified the sentence a bit and removed "useless" which was a bit too strong for my taste.

Even with multiple disks available on a server, the ESXi OS installation uses only the first disk of the targeted disk group (see [Choosing the disk group to install an operating system](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/install_hybrid)). Other disks may be configured afterwards to be used for virtual machines (see [How to add a datastore](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/hgrstor2_system_configuration#add-datastore)).

There are 4 different values:

|Value|System size¹|Datastore³|
|---|---|---|
|`default`|130 GiB|All remaining space²|
|`min`|32 GiB|All remaining space²|
|`small`|64 GiB|❌⁴|
|`max`|All available space²|❌⁴|

¹ On the first disk of the targeted disk group for the OS installation.<br />

> ² Space of the disk on which the OS will be installed.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
² Space on the disk on which the OS will be installed.<br />
```

³ A datastore is a disk partition (sometimes also called "container") that ESXi will use to store the virtual machines. [More details](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/com.vmware.vsphere.storage.doc/GUID-5EE84941-366D-4D37-8B7B-767D08928888.html).<br />
⁴ Customers can still [add a datastore](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/hgrstor2_system_configuration#add-datastore) afterwards on the other disks.

> As you can see, all the space of that installation disk will be used except if you choose the `small` partitioning layout.

Reviewer: Are you sure? I was under the impression that `datastore1` was always created except with the `max` scheme. I'm testing it right now.

Reviewer: I just made sure:
```
Filesystem   Size   Used Available Use% Mounted on
VMFS-6     159.5G   1.4G    158.1G   1% /vmfs/volumes/datastore1
VFFS        55.8G   2.9G     52.9G   5% /vmfs/volumes/OSDATA-64f7372d-b5205f11-5ff1-38d54700eb2f
vfat         4.0G 204.4M      3.8G   5% /vmfs/volumes/BOOTBANK1
vfat         4.0G  64.0K      4.0G   0% /vmfs/volumes/BOOTBANK2
```
The whole disk is used there too. The only special scheme is "max" for which there is no "datastore1" created.

> [!primary]
>
> Did you know?
> 

> > [VMware on OVHcloud solutions](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/hosted-private-cloud/vmware/) are based on ESXi with the partitioning layout `small`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [OVHcloud's Hosted Private Cloud solution](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/hosted-private-cloud/vmware/) is based on ESXi with the partitioning layout `small`.
```

But I'm not sure we want to have this in writing as PCC might change this later, making our documentation obsolete.

>

### How to select the partitioning scheme

The `default` partitioning scheme will be used unless another one is selected.

#### Via the OVHcloud Control Panel

> [!primary]
>

> > The procedure is very similar [to other operating systems](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/getting-started-with-dedicated-server), with the exception that you cannot tick the checkbox `Customise the partitioning configuration`{.action} and that you have a dropdown menu to choose the partitioning layout at the 4th and final step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The procedure is very similar [to other operating systems](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/getting-started-with-dedicated-server), with the exception that you cannot tick the checkbox `Customise the partitioning configuration`{.action} and that you have a dropdown menu to choose the partitioning layout at the fourth and final step.
```

>

Log in to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](https://www.ovh.com/auth/?action=gotomanager&from=https://www.ovh.co.uk/&ovhSubsidiary=GB). From the `General information`{.action} tab, click the `...`{.action} button next to the operating system and then click `Install`{.action}.

![Reinstall button](images/reinstalling-your-server-00.png){.thumbnail}

In the popup window, select `Install from an OVHcloud template`{.action}

Click `Next`{.action} to continue.

![Template selection](images/reinstalling-your-server-01.png){.thumbnail}

> Then choose `Virtualisation`{.action}, `UNIX`{.action} and choose the version of ESXi you want to install on your dedicated server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then choose `Virtualisation`{.action}, `UNIX`{.action} and select the version of ESXi you want to install on your dedicated server.
```
To avoid repetition

> [!primary]
>

> > The option `Customise the hardware RAID configuration`{.action} is available only if your dedicated server has a hardware RAID controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `Customise the hardware RAID configuration`{.action} option is only available if your dedicated server has a hardware RAID controller.
```

>

> [!primary]
>

> > The option `Customise the partition configuration`{.action} is not available, for the reasons explained above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `Customise the partition configuration`{.action} option is not available, for the above reasons.
```

>

Choose the disk group on which you want ESXi to be installed. Note that only the first disk of this group will be used to install the OS. Find more information in [this guide](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/install_hybrid).

Click `Next`{.action} to continue.

![ESXi selection](images/reinstalling-your-server-02.png){.thumbnail}

> In the `Partitioning scheme`{.action} dropdown menu, select the partitioning scheme you want to have. The overview is updated as soon as you select another partitioning scheme, so you can get an idea of how your partitioning will look like on your dedicated server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Partitioning scheme`{.action} dropdown menu, select the desired partitioning scheme. The overview is updated as soon as you select another partitioning scheme, so you can get an idea of how the partitioning will look like on your dedicated server.
```

Fill in the other details and click `Confirm`{.action} to start the ESXi installation on your dedicated server.

> [!primary]
>

> >  The `Number of disks partitioned`{.action} field is greyed out and set to 1, even if your server has more than 1 disk on the disks group target for OS installation, as explained above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  The `Number of disks partitioned`{.action} field is greyed out and set to 1, even if your server has more than 1 disk on the target disks group for OS installation, as explained above.
```
